Prince in this video,
we're going to discuss about the next two data structure.
That is double data structure night.
See,
let me show you how to work with couple.
I mean,
how to define on order.
Access your values off your trouble,
right?
How to do some operations on your top religious structure?
First thing let me define.
So how did they find you were Couple,
right?
So you guys you can define define your topple,
You know,
like my topple my couple Any any variable then you can take.
But I'm doing simply my tipple.
Three common for Come on fight.
And if you want to define any empty topple right,
my empty couple equals So this it right?
No.
Let me sell this as a some by transcript on I want to run something here.
So working with a couple.
Fine.
So first thing how you can print They were a couple.
Simply the wearable name.
See,
that would put or how you can print your empty trouble,
But I wouldn't a variable you have for that.
That's it.
No.
See that right now?
Let me come.
What?
They were toppled into bullion.
So first I'm going to convert my empty topple into bullion.
You know the empty list.
If you convert into double what you're going to get the bullion data as false savior here
I'm converting my entry topple into bullion.
Now you're getting false.
Let me convert some non empty topple Indo 1,000,000,000 Not empty.
Nothing morality.
How you're double right.
See,
that would put true right?
So if you can what any empty topple data into a 1,000,000,000 you'll get a false or if you
cannot,
any non empty trouble later in two billion you'll get always true,
right?
Fine.
The next thing is so I want to define it couple So they're my double consist off different
values on in there.
One of the value easy list.
Yes,
you can.
I mean,
suppose sometimes if you vision requirement,
you can also defend your couple in this way.
Let's say 34 injured or fight the 5th 3rd element I'm taking as a list.
Nobody can take it right now.
Let me define Let me print mine minute operator sit output body are getting No,
there's you know how to access your elements from your list.
Based on index,
the same concept is applicable.
Even while working with your couple,
you can access particular value from your papa.
Let's say I want access number four.
Do you know if you go with the pause to index,
the number four Knicks is one right,
Because 30 than forties one,
then this entire thing is one element.
Guests.
This entire thing is a one element for your main couple.
So that's right for this entire list Indexes to now.
This is three.
And this is for right now.
Let me bring something,
friend.
You are a couple with indexes,
Jiro.
See that?
Put where you're getting your getting first value.
Let me bring a couple value on index one.
Not see that would put what you're getting.
Let me print the index value to from your tipple.
That is a list off value.
So that would put all you're getting 567 Now from this,
if you want to get right suppose six.
The number six I need to get.
So if you want to get to six faster than you are to get this element,
that is a list.
Yes,
we are getting that with help off in next to now from this from this unit six value.
That means I get to take in next one.
Now,
see that Would what you're going to get?
Six.
So be clear,
guys,
if you want to access digit six first of all from your main couple,
this is your main temple From that couple forced you are to get this element to get that
element we're taking in textiles to because positive index 012 No,
this is like a one list like from this list.
If you want to get second element harder,
take index as one.
That's what I did find.
No,
let's be our sign from my couple index of zero value Something is that I want to modify
that with some other value.
Let's say in this way after that,
whether it is possible or not,
you are getting an ETA couple Object does not support item assignment.
That means once,
if you're defined the values in your topple,
you cannot change the any values or item in your couple.
That means couples are immutable assignment.
Modifying the part off your trouble is not possible,
but modifying the antidote is more is possible,
like your strings also right even in your strings,
you can modify and testing,
but you cannot modify the part off your string.
Same rule is applicable with your apple as well.
They so it's very,
very important.
Race couple on strings for immutable.
That means once if you defined,
you cannot change the part off your couple or strength.
That's a No couple is not ableto do.
I mean you can't perform any operations such that what the old are prison you're using
right?
That operation is not going to modify your trouble.
That's why you're saying topples are immutable.
That's why you see the operations on your topple.
There are no much operations on your double.
Let's say I'm defining Couple called for Come off I and see the operations on your couple
Only counter next operations you don't know,
like up and insert update.
I mean,
ah,
stop removed.
Extent.
Those all are there with your list,
right?
Let's say I have a list off data so on that I'm trying to find the list off operations.
See that you how index extend.
So it next anybody is there with you and never couple also right index and count.
Other than that you don't have any operations like remove sort,
right?
Insert X turn.
Copy.
So that means once if you define it up,
will you cannot modify it.
Right now you know how to use over the counter in index.
What is the purpose of conch if you have a double like this,
something like this.
So how many times?
But clearly letter is the butler number?
Is there butler data?
Is there any given couple?
Let's say I want to find five.
How many times it is death,
Right?
Let's a different one more fine now and check it two times.
Then what is the index off number five?
Digital.
So is there any number?
Ah,
fight after index.
One side after next zero.
Because very forced you next is number fighter.
I don't want to look for this other than that from here.
I want to look.
Is there any fight then?
Probably that starting index from where you want to look?
Yes,
it is there somewhere in 50 operation and you can find the length off your couple guys.
See that six letter so that I mean six date us are there in your temple,
So length is applicable your strings list a couple.
All right,
let me insure you once again.
If it is a list,
then length off your study for it is a string,
then lent off your string.
Let's define some list,
then lent off your list.
Let's different.
Some couple.
Then what is the length off your couple?
That's it.
Okay,
so there's you can access based on index,
your couple values as your list,
right?
I mean,
already we've done this thing.
No,
let me our do it.
One second.
Come here.
Let me define my couple in this way.
Any couple mobile right now you know what is the use off couple?
Colon?
Same operation as you were list on the spring.
You're going to get entire couple,
but I want to get from Index Jiro the last same thing,
but I want to get from index card index to last 30.
Index means Joe Indexes three number.
This is second index on This is that's such a regional of 12 3 60 is the card index from
six to last I want.
Then I can take in this way,
right?
So whatever the index operations we perform Lonely World strings.
All are applicable here as well.
Let's say I want to get from starting to 15 next value.
If you want to get 50 next value,
you are to provide six.
Right.
See that one first?
Jiro.
123456 If you take 16 dates,
you're getting upto $5 6 Well,
it's up to 15.
Next,
right,
that's it.
Now let me take one more thing.
A last operation one second.
So that is simply print my tipple from third index three values from 13 Next three values,
then three plus 36 yard to provide are from 13.
Next,
I want to get to Alice.
Only three and four,
three and four.
That's why three place to fifth Now.
If you observe the airport,
you're getting two values as a couple.
Now we have lost explanation with your couple.
That is,
I suppose if I did X equals to fight,
then print exe under then Taipa fix.
You don't put in diesel,
right?
But I am giving comma here.
No seat output a couple.
So if you write X equals toe fight comma,
that is a A couple which consist off only one value And also you can do something like this
is also valid.
Couple A fighter might come on nine minutes.
A couple Which contest off?
Three values.
Sit output.
You're not getting any better.
If you write in this way by default,
it will become a couple data structure.
You need to remember this point.
Okay,
single later.
Police.
You can buy something in this some number.
But if you don't write comma,
it will become an Indian.
Data in deserve variable.
But it is not a double data structure wearable.
If Wright comma,
that will become a couple data structure variable.
All right,
you guys,
these are the important points with you.
Are double guys as off?
No.
We have seen a list of data structure and double data structure.
So you don't remember that lists or mutable.
But now what?
If you want to change the data off your list,
any part off your list,
you can change it.
But you cannot change the part off your couple.
That's why string lists are immutable and troubles are immutable.
Okay,
then what is?
The use is off your topple and list in your real life.
See,
you're designing some by phone script night on.
You're taking some data.
So we're taking data by logic.
If you want to change your data,
you have to take your data as at least even by mistake.
If you don't want to change your data than simply consider your data as a couple and we
will see that situation with help off an example once if we complete with the word basic
concepts.
So after that,
he had to wait.
you have to remember simply.
Couple immutable lists are mutable.
That's it.
Okay.
Thank you for watching this with you.